One of the big fundamental concepts when working with classes is the idea of inheritance.
So for example let's say we're building out a program like a video game or something and we know all
of our it's going to be like a fighting video game so we know all of our fighters are going to be people
in this particular videogame right.
Well the idea is we might represent these people with a class of person like so so we might be a class
person like so.
And we know that all people are going to have certain attributes most people have things like arms and
legs and eyes and so on and so forth.
But then after that we may want to create a more specific class based on different types of fighters
right.
Some will be wrestlers some will be judo experts others may be like masters of points high or what have
you.
And so we're going to need to create very specific classes for individual categories of people.
So this is where inheritance can come in.
Basically what we do with inheritance is we define kind of a general class like right here where we
know all of our classes are going to have these kind of overlapping things.
And then after that we specify a more specific class that inherits all of these base properties right
here and then we add on some more specific properties that are unique to that particular type of person
or type of fighter.
So in this case we might do a class of person and we'll do a constructor and since it'll be a video
game we'll do something like strength and then speed and then intelligence.
And then after that we'll just set this strength the strength and then this speed equals speed and then
this intelligence equals intelligence like so with that being said instead of instantiating this what
I might want to do is create another class called wrestler.
And now in order to inherit from this person right here I need to use the key word extends person.
OK.
Now I'm going to leave this as is for now and I'm going to show you something so I'll do Konst wrestler
equals new wrestler like so and I'll pass and just 23:45 76 like so and then I'm just going to cancel
that log wrestler.
So now let's see Konsole misspelled console.
It Go.
So now you can see whenever I print out the wrestler It has all of the attributes that I specified in
my person class.
So essentially what happens whenever we extend a class is we inherit from it.
So now whenever I call the wrestler class the constructor function of my parent is going to automatically
get called.
And all of the arguments that I pass in are automatically going to get passed through to this parent
constructor function.
Whenever we create a class and we inherit from a parent class we call this a derived class in javascript.
OK.
Now we could also do is we can define our own custom properties that we want to have on instances of
wrestlers.
So what we'll do is we'll define a constructor and inside of here we might want the same things as before
Strength speed and intelligence passed in.
So in this case we're go ahead and copy that down.
And then after that we may want some unique properties like for example grappling and then maybe takedowns
like so and then inside of the constructor function you need to do something very important now.
You need to use the keyword super and then pass in all of these arguments right here.
So in this case will pass in strength speed and intelligence and then we'll set this dog grappling equal
to like the grappling and this dot takedowns equal to takedowns like so so what's happening.
Well essentially whenever we define our own constructor on a defined class we need to use the key words
Super all the keywords super is going to do is call the parent constructor function right here.
Whenever we don't have a constructor function specified on our child class on our derived class the
parent constructor function automatically gets called whenever we do specify our own constructor function.
In that case we need to use the super keyword to make sure that we're still calling the constructor
function of our parent class and whenever we do that we need to pass in the arguments that are constructor
function appear actually requires.
And then after that we can take all of these extra parameters right here and assign them to our properties.
In this case I'll do 32 and then 32 again.
Now if you save it you see that this wrestler has all of the properties that a person would have but
then it has also some special properties that are unique to someone like for example a wrestler.
So just something to keep in mind whenever you don't specify a constructor function for your derived
class then you don't need to do anything because the constructor function here is going to automatically
get called.
But if you do create your own custom constructor function inside of a derived class you need to use
the keyword super to make sure you're still activating this constructor function inside of the parent.
Last thing to keep in mind if you try to use the keyword this before you call super.
You're actually going to get an error right here and it'll tell you most call super constructor in derived
class before accessing this or returning from a derived.
So in this case we're going to go ahead and move that back above our assignments right here.
And so now everything should work correctly.
So just something else to keep in mind you can't access this.
The keyword this before you call a super.